Hello everyone.
Welcome to the course was this course all about well you'll begin this course as someone who already
understands at least the very basics of each Temple and CSX and by the end of the course you will have
transformed into a rock solid developer that companies are looking to hire.
How do I know what companies are looking for because as a senior developer I've been on the hiring side
of developer job interviews and I noticed that a lot of times we'd be interviewing great people who
were very talented but they just didn't have the knowledge we were looking for.
So we had to pass on them at some point I thought to myself that it would be nice if there was a course
that taught the exact skill set.
We were looking for.
I couldn't find such a course.
So I built this one.
So in this course we are going to build a Web site together from beginning to end and we'll even push
it live up onto the Web.
Don't worry that part won't cost you a penny.
And once your site is live you can share the link with anyone on the planet.
Now even though we'll build the site together and have a really nice finished product.
This course is really more about the journey than the destination because along the way we'll learn
how to use all of the tools that make up the modern developer's workflow.
Now there are a ton of different tools and it can be tricky to understand how all of the puzzle pieces
fit together.
So my job is to walk through the jungle of tools and best practices with you step by step concept by
concept.
Now we will get into the course outline in just a moment but first I want to address my teaching style.
I tried to explain why we're doing something because I know that personally when I'm trying to learn
something new Nothing frustrates me more than when the instructor technically shows me how to complete
a task.
But by the end of the lesson I still have no idea why I even needed to complete the task in the first
place.
I don't like it when instructors assume that you already know why you're doing something.
And they basically just want to read a series of instructions to you.
In my opinion that isn't teaching.
That's one step above reading microwave popcorn instructions to people and calling yourself a teacher
anyways.
That's not the way I learn.
So that's not the way I teach.
I try to explain why we're doing what we're doing.
All right now let's move on.
Let's talk about the outline for the course.
So what exactly are we going to do and learn.
Well there are seven main topics or sections and here they are.
The first section is about guilt.
Now we have an entire lesson dedicated to the question of what is good.
So for now.
Long story short.
Guilt is what allows us to collaborate with other developers and keep track of how our files change
over time.
In this section we'll learn Git itself.
And also a popular service named GitHub.
Also in this section we will face our fears of the command line.
We'll learn that the command line is not scary.
If you have a friend walk you through things step by step in the next section of the course we will
learn about node j s.
Now again we have an entire lesson that answers the question what is node.
But basically we'll use node to turn our computer into our own personal assistant robot that performs
all sorts of tasks for us automatically.
And this will free us up to spend our time on more important developer tasks.
In this section we'll also learn about something named NPM which is like a grocery store filled with
code where we can grab any ingredients we need for our site in one centralized place.
Also in this section we'll learn about something named Webb pack which is the tool that will make turning
our computer into our personal little robot assistant much much easier than coding things from scratch.
The next section of the Course is all about CSX.
We will write every single line of CSX for our site together so that way you can see my thought process.
Now you might be thinking Hey I already know CSX and I'm sure you do but companies don't just want developers
who can create a three column layout.
They also want someone who can keep their CSX highly organized even on larger more complex projects.
So in this section we'll learn how to stay really organized and write recyclable CSX by learning about
a philosophy named bam.
The next section of the Course is about mobile first design and performance.
Performance means making our site load as quickly as possible for our visitors.
Now again we have an entire lesson answering the question what is mobile first.
But in a nutshell mobile first is all about making sure that users don't download any more data than
they need to in order for the site to run on their particular device.
So for example a smartphone visitor shouldn't have to download a huge image that suited for a 30 inch
desktop monitor.
Also in the name of reducing how much data visitors need to download we'll learn about lazy loading
our images so images only get loaded in once a user scrolls down to them and it goes without saying
that in this section we'll learn about responsive web design from a mobile first perspective.
The next section of our course is all about JavaScript and this is probably the section of the course
that you will be most excited about because javascript is the single most valuable skill in terms of
what employers are looking for right now in this section we'll learn about the very basics of object
oriented programming.
We'll learn about the module pattern which lets us break up our code into modular super well organized
chunks and we'll also learn how to use popular tools like babble and web pack babble will let us write
ultramodern iOS 6 flavor javascript and Westpac will let us use NPM packages in our front end code in
the next section of our course.
We will push our site live up onto the Web.
We will use a free service that github offers so you won't need to sign up for any new web hosting or
anything.
Also we will use the popular net in the fire service and see how easy it is to get started with cloud
or NWS lambda functions and in the final section of our course we will talk about job interviews and
career progression.
So first we'll learn how to get more job interviews and then how to do well in those interviews.
After that we'll talk about next steps.
Things you can learn after this course.
If you want to level up your skills even further.
And finally we'll talk about career progression.
We'll learn how to continually move forward and avoid career burnout or stagnation.
And there you have it.
A complete outline of the course and it's a big course.
I'm well aware but I really believe the reward for completing it will be equally big.
I know that if I was interviewing someone who had the skill set that we were going to learn here I would
give management the green light to hire them.
Now I know there are a lot of topics being covered here and it might seem intimidating but I promise
we are going to move at a pace where we can focus on one thing at a time and give it our full attention.
We will take the time to build a genuine understanding of each topic before moving on to the next.
And this will keep us from feeling overwhelmed.
It's actually going to be a lot of fun to see how all of these puzzle pieces fit together.
I would love to have you come along on this journey with me.
So if you're ready to begin your transformation let's dive right in.